This illustration, made in 1565 by Basawan and Mah Muhammad captures a scene in the occurrence of a rebellion against Akbar and his loyalists.
Akbar was elephant hunting when he heard the news of a rebellion, that prompted his return to his estate.
The tapestries on his wall signaling that he is a man of the highest class; after all only the richest and most high class could afford the silk sheets brought in from the orient.
With the loyal retainers, they stood at the ready to aid Akbar to satisfy any of his requests.
To Akbar’s right, his royal advisors, or I guess you can say “right hand men” are present to counsel their ruler and take his orders.
In this scene, Akbar has called a meeting with Mu’nim Khan, Khwaja Khan and his other royal advisors to address a plan of action in halting this rebellion.
Akbar at the center, deals with all the chaos between the advisors on the left side of the image and the soldier on the right side.
Though, there is not much difference in the manner of which all the loyalists are dressed, the positioning of each individual is crucial.
The royal advisors to his right, with the exception of his retainers, are standing closer to Akbar as they carry closer and stronger relationship with Akbar.
A relationship that allows them to have Akbar’s ear in circumstances such as this rebellion.
On the bottom right of the image, the soldiers are stationed, with neutral expressions.
The soldiers carry swords on their sides as if they are ready for the battle they are about to face.
Looking up to Akbar, some come across as waiting for orders to address this uprising.
Whereas, some soldiers seem restless in beginning this war as they look to Akbar as the signal to the elephants.
Among the other soldiers the man in the middle, dressed in orange, presents to Akbar elephants ready for battle.
Historically, Akbar had a personal obsession with elephants, which makes the elephants in this image very vital.
These elephants wear a headdress and body armor that is traditionally only worn in preparation of war.
With soldiers already sitting upon their elephants, they are seen as encouragement for their ruler to enter war.
Ultimately, Akbar ordered Mu’nim Khan to go ahead to prepare for a battle.
Mu’nim Khan was loyal member to the Mughal empire and carried a very crucial position in advising Akbar.
As a principle minister to Akbar, Mu’nim Khan came to be known as ‘Khan’I Khanan’.
Entrusting Mu’nim Khan with the task to setting up a camp for the army came easily for Akbar, due to the relationship they had.
Dressed in blue in the image, Mu’nim Khan takes his order to travel ahead and set up a campsite for battle.
He was later to greet Akbar’s arrival at the camp
and enter war together.